Chapter 4 .
I had thus learned a second fact of great importance : this was that the planet the little prince came from was scarcely any larger than a house !
But that did not really surprise me much .
I knew very well that in addition to the great planets -- such as the Earth , Jupiter , Mars , Venus -- to which we have given names , there are also hundreds of others , some of which are so small that one has a hard time seeing them through the telescope .
When an astronomer discovers one of these he does not give it a name , but only a number .
He might call it , for example , " Asteroid 325 . "
I have serious reason to believe that the planet from which the little prince came is the asteroid known as B-612 .
This asteroid has only once been seen through the telescope .
That was by a Turkish astronomer , in 1909 .
On making his discovery , the astronomer had presented it to the International Astronomical Congress , in a great demonstration .
But he was in Turkish costume , and so nobody would believe what he said .
Grown - ups are like that ...
Fortunately , however , for the reputation of Asteroid B-612 , a Turkish dictator made a law that his subjects , under pain of death , should change to European costume .
So in 1920 the astronomer gave his demonstration all over again , dressed with impressive style and elegance .
And this time everybody accepted his report .
If I have told you these details about the asteroid , and made a note of its number for you , it is on account of the grown - ups and their ways .
WHen you tell them that you have made a new friend , they never ask you any questions about essential matters .
They never say to you , " What does his voice sound like ?
What games does he love best ?
Does he collect butterflies ? "
Instead , they demand : " How old is he ?
How many brothers has he ?
How much does he weigh ?
How much money does his father make ? "
Only from these figures do they think they have learned anything about him .
If you were to say to the grown - ups : " I saw a beautiful house made of rosy brick , with geraniums in the windows and doves on the roof , " they would not be able to get any idea of that house at all .
You would have to say to them : " I saw a house that cost $ 20,000 . "
Then they would exclaim : " Oh , what a pretty house that is ! "
Just so , you might say to them : " The proof that the little prince existed is that he was charming , that he laughed , and that he was looking for a sheep .
If anybody wants a sheep , that is a proof that he exists . "
And what good would it do to tell them that ?
They would shrug their shoulders , and treat you like a child .
But if you said to them : " The planet he came from is Asteroid B-612 , " then they would be convinced , and leave you in peace from their questions .
They are like that .
One must not hold it against them .
Children should always show great forbearance toward grown - up people .
But certainly , for us who understand life , figures are a matter of indifference .
I should have liked to begin this story in the fashion of the fairy - tales .
I should have like to say : " Once upon a time there was a little prince who lived on a planet that was scarcely any bigger than himself , and who had need of a sheep ... "
To those who understand life , that would have given a much greater air of truth to my story .
For I do not want any one to read my book carelessly .
I have suffered too much grief in setting down these memories .
Six years have already passed since my friend went away from me , with his sheep .
If I try to describe him here , it is to make sure that I shall not forget him .
To forget a friend is sad .
Not every one has had a friend .
And if I forget him , I may become like the grown - ups who are no longer interested in anything but figures ...
It is for that purpose , again , that I have bought a box of paints and some pencils .
It is hard to take up drawing again at my age , when I have never made any pictures except those of the boa constrictor from the outside and the boa constrictor from the inside , since I was six .
I shall certainly try to make my portraits as true to life as possible .
But I am not at all sure of success .
One drawing goes along all right , and another has no resemblance to its subject .
I make some errors , too , in the little prince 's height : in one place he is too tall and in another too short .
And I feel some doubts about the color of his costume .
So I fumble along as best I can , now good , now bad , and I hope generally fair - to - middling .
In certain more important details I shall make mistakes , also .
But that is something that will not be my fault .
My friend never explained anything to me .
He thought , perhaps , that I was like himself .
But I , alas , do not know how to see sheep through the walls of boxes .
Perhaps I am a little like the grown - ups .
I have had to grow old .
Chapter 5 .
As each day passed I would learn , in our talk , something about the little prince 's planet , his departure from it , his journey .
The information would come very slowly , as it might chance to fall from his thoughts .
It was in this way that I heard , on the third day , about the catastrophe of the baobabs .
This time , once more , I had the sheep to thank for it .
For the little prince asked me abruptly -- as if seized by a grave doubt -- " It is true , is n't it , that sheep eat little bushes ? "
" Yes , that is true . "
" Ah !
I am glad ! "
I did not understand why it was so important that sheep should eat little bushes .
But the little prince added : " Then it follows that they also eat baobabs ? "
I pointed out to the little prince that baobabs were not little bushes , but , on the contrary , trees as big as castles ; and that even if he took a whole herd of elephants away with him , the herd would not eat up one single baobab .
The idea of the herd of elephants made the little prince laugh .
" We would have to put them one on top of the other , " he said .
But he made a wise comment : " Before they grow so big , the baobabs start out by being little . "
" That is strictly correct , "
I said .
" But why do you want the sheep to eat the little baobabs ? "
He answered me at once , " Oh , come , come ! " , as if he were speaking of something that was self - evident .
And I was obliged to make a great mental effort to solve this problem , without any assistance .
Indeed , as I learned , there were on the planet where the little prince lived -- as on all planets -- good plants and bad plants .
In consequence , there were good seeds from good plants , and bad seeds from bad plants .
But seeds are invisible .
They sleep deep in the heart of the earth 's darkness , until some one among them is seized with the desire to awaken .
Then this little seed will stretch itself and begin -- timidly at first -- to push a charming little sprig inoffensively upward toward the sun .
If it is only a sprout of radish or the sprig of a rose - bush , one would let it grow wherever it might wish .
But when it is a bad plant , one must destroy it as soon as possible , the very first instant that one recognizes it .
Now there were some terrible seeds on the planet that was the home of the little prince ; and these were the seeds of the baobab .
The soil of that planet was infested with them .
A baobab is something you will never , never be able to get rid of if you attend to it too late .
It spreads over the entire planet .
It bores clear through it with its roots .
And if the planet is too small , and the baobabs are too many , they split it in pieces ...
" It is a question of discipline , " the little prince said to me later on .
" When you 've finished your own toilet in the morning , then it is time to attend to the toilet of your planet , just so , with the greatest care .
You must see to it that you pull up regularly all the baobabs , at the very first moment when they can be distinguished from the rosebushes which they resemble so closely in their earliest youth .
It is very tedious work , " the little prince added , " but very easy . "
And one day he said to me : " You ought to make a beautiful drawing , so that the children where you live can see exactly how all this is .
That would be very useful to them if they were to travel some day .
Sometimes , " he added , " there is no harm in putting off a piece of work until another day .
But when it is a matter of baobabs , that always means a catastrophe .
I knew a planet that was inhabited by a lazy man .
He neglected three little bushes ... "
So , as the little prince described it to me , I have made a drawing of that planet .
I do not much like to take the tone of a moralist .
But the danger of the baobabs is so little understood , and such considerable risks would be run by anyone who might get lost on an asteroid , that for once I am breaking through my reserve .
" Children , "
I say plainly , " watch out for the baobabs ! "
My friends , like myself , have been skirting this danger for a long time , without ever knowing it ; and so it is for them that I have worked so hard over this drawing .
The lesson which I pass on by this means is worth all the trouble it has cost me .
Perhaps you will ask me , " Why are there no other drawing in this book as magnificent and impressive as this drawing of the baobabs ? "
The reply is simple .
I have tried .
But with the others I have not been successful .
When I made the drawing of the baobabs I was carried beyond myself by the inspiring force of urgent necessity .
Chapter 6 .
Oh , little prince !
Bit by bit I came to understand the secrets of your sad little life ...
For a long time you had found your only entertainment in the quiet pleasure of looking at the sunset .
I learned that new detail on the morning of the fourth day , when you said to me : " I am very fond of sunsets .
Come , let us go look at a sunset now . "
" But we must wait , "
I said .
" Wait ?
For what ? "
" For the sunset .
We must wait until it is time . "
At first you seemed to be very much surprised .
And then you laughed to yourself .
You said to me : " I am always thinking that I am at home ! "
Just so .
Everybody knows that when it is noon in the United States the sun is setting over France .
If you could fly to France in one minute , you could go straight into the sunset , right from noon .
Unfortunately , France is too far away for that .
But on your tiny planet , my little prince , all you need do is move your chair a few steps .
You can see the day end and the twilight falling whenever you like ...
" One day , " you said to me , " I saw the sunset forty - four times ! "
And a little later you added : " You know -- one loves the sunset , when one is so sad ... "
" Were you so sad , then ? "
I asked , " on the day of the forty - four sunsets ? "
But the little prince made no reply .
